# Cryptography
In this repository, we will discuss some basic computations of cryptography. For the computation part, I have used CAS (computer algebra system) SageMath. This is a very good open-source programming language based on Python. Here almost all public key cryptosystems are inbuilt and some functions, one of them is the brute-force method, to break the encrypted message for a particular cryptosystem.
### cryptography basics
Before we go into the details of cryptography, first we need to know the encoded values of every letter, small and capital, and all special characters in the keyboard in binary, hexadecimal, and alphabetic strings. Binary string takes only 0 and 1. Hexadecimal string takes values from 0 to 9 and a to f. For an alphabetic string, it encodes a small letter into its correspondence capital letter and capital letters remain the same. Alphabetic string doesn't work for any other symbols. This encryption of letters and symbols in cryptography is the basics things you need to know. These are the building blocks of all public key cryptosystems.  
### Public key cryptosystems
In this file, I have discussed almost all the public key cryptosystems that are widely used and taught at the basics level. The cryptosystems that I have discussed are Shift cipher, Substitution cipher, Affine cipher, VIgener cipher, Hill cipher, and Permutation(transposition) cipher. I have also explained a little bit about the cryptosystems so that if anyone wants to do the transformation from plaintext to ciphertext, that individual can do that by himself. 
### Algorithms
